
Dear Birdy Magazine Submissions Editor,

My name is Tom Hartung. I have been a big fan of your magazine since the first issue I saw, issue 20, and a fairly serious collecter since around issue 30.

I am curious whether you'd be interesting in publishing some of my Spiritual Portraits.  These are images of famous and fictional personalities that I draw using a program I have written.

I call the program "GROJA," for Graphical Representations of Jungian Archetypes.  Being based on Carl Jung's General Description of the Types, the personality profiles used to create the images have the same basis as the Myers Briggs Type Indicator or MBTI(r), so they reference the same four-letter types - ESTJ, INFP, etc.

The GROJA program used to be online but I took it down due to security concerns, and now just post the images themselves.  You can learn more about it at my websites:

- www.groja.com and
- www.seeourminds.com

You can see examples of the portraits in the galleries at seeourminds.com/galleries .

If you like, I would be happy to create images of you and your fellow Birdy contributors!

The images do not mean much without some sort of explanation, so please be sure to click on the "Show the Whole Story" buttons for some of them.  I am only recently learning how to write these stories, so some of them are in better shape than others.  I am proudest of the stories for the most recent additions: JFK, LBJ, Fidel Castro, and Imelda Marcos.

The images make even more sense when two or more are compared and contrasted, making visible people's similarities and differences.  It's also important that the images be of personalities that the viewer is familiar with - hence my focus on presidents, and famous and fictional people.  So in general, those images currently have the best stories, but this whole idea is totally a work in progress.

Specifically, I am curious whether Birdy would be interested in publishing some diptychs or triptychs of these images, along with some short explanation of how the similarities and differences in the people's personalities are visible in the images.  Some of the stories mention comparing and contrasting images, but I have not yet pursued the idea of creating diptychs or triptychs, so this would be new for me as well as you.

If this sounds at all like something you would be interested in, please contact me!

Email: tomh@tomhartung.com
Cell phone: 720-635-1139
Land line: 303-863-1757

By the way, I'm in Denver - 2075 Emerson Street, to be exact - and pick up issues of Birdy at the Sie Filmcenter, Twist and Shout, and Tattered Cover.

Thanks for publishing such an awesome magazine, for taking the time to consider my submission, and I look forward to hearing from you soon!


