
  Is Working Fourty Hours a Week Closer to Freedom or Slavery?

Today, some people might feel that working fourty hours a week is like being a slave.  This short essay asserts that nothing could be further from the truth.

First, look at the numbers.  There are 168 hours in a week, and fourty hours is less than one-fourth of this.  This means the slave's obligation is more than four times greater than the obligation of a full-time employee.

Second, compare the options of a full-time employee to those of a slave.  The employee is free to quit and find a new job at any time, but a slave does not have this option.  Worse, a slave can be sold, separating them from their family forever.

Third, consider the physical punishments.  Keeping a slave in chains is acceptable, and made unnecessary only by the constant threat of severe physical torture.

A slave owner can legally subject a slave to punishments such as flogging for any infraction whatsoever.  Some owners have inflicted hundreds of lashes at a time, which could actually kill the slave.  At best this left the victim scarred - physically and emotionally - for life.  In contrast, today a boss who inflicts any sort of physical punishment on a full-time employee is subject to criminal prosecution.

Finally, sexual abuse of a slave by their owner is completely legal.  A slave could be raped repeatedly, and a womane even be forced to bear the child of her rapist, without any recourse whatsoever.  These days, however, simply making a seemingly innocent comment about their employee's appearance can make a boss the defendant in a sexual harrassment lawsuit.

It is certainly understandable how on-going financial and family obligations might make a person feel trapped in a job they don't like.  However, the notion that someone working fourty hours a week is anything like a slave is preposterous.

Anyone claiming there is more than a superficial similarity between slavery and full time employment is likely just feeling a bit grumpy on a Monday morning, and has not given the notion serious, objective consideration.

