
Spike Lee, Michael Bay, and Andrei Tarkovsky Walk Into a Bar: A Christmas Story

It's Christmas Eve, 2025, I am at a local kava bar.  It is crazy crowded, but I manage to grab a booth just as a group of people are leaving.

I was getting ready to open my copy of Harlan Ellison's Dangerous Visions when someone comes up and asks if they could sit with me.
"Sure", I say.  I mean, it's super crowded, so, duh!

We started chatting and, when the topic turned from music in general to punk rock specifically, my new friend Alex told me they'd seen the Sex Pistols perform when they toured Britain in 1976!

Like so many other people who went on to form bands back then - bands such as Siouxsie and the Banshees, Joy Division, New Order, The Smiths, and X-Ray Spex - seeing the Sex Pistols instantly changed Alex's life.
In fact, right then and there, they had decided that they wanted to do something similar: play music that was totally original - and equally disruptive.

Like so many of the Sex Pistols' shows, chaos ensued during the show that night.  Alex was hit in the head by a flying folding chair and wound up in a coma!
Crazy, huh?

When I told Alex I thought this was unbelievable, they insisted that I feel the metal plate in their head.
It felt real enough, alright, but I still couldn't resist thinking this was one tall-as-hell tale!

Alex proceeded to tell me about how their parents relocated to Denver, Colorado in the 1990s and brought their still-comatose child along with them.
In 2018, Alex finally woke up!  Their aging parents died a few years later, but were able to leave their child with a modest inheritance.

After a bit of physical therapy, Alex made a full recovery, and was able to remember their dream of following in the rebellious, influential Sex Pistols' footsteps.
Moreover, Alex was in effect now a child with a teenager's brain stuck in a 65-year-old's body.

The still-rebellious Alex could see that we now have an internet connecting everyone on the planet, and a violent mob of internet trolls has taken control of America's government.
But they also realize that there are a lot of musicians around these days who have already followed - to varying degrees and with varying effects - in the Pistols' footsteps.

So at this time, it seems like Alex's original goal is just not realistic, because they'd just be drowned out by all the competition.
For my part, I had to agree: playing music these days is soooo 1970s.

At this point, three of my favorite movie directors, Spike Lee, Michael Bay, and Andrei Tarkovsky - who have been sitting in the booth behind me all this time - interrupt us to say maybe instead of playing music, Alex should make movies!
I can see that this is an omen and immediately tell Alex: "of course! You should totally try making movies!"

Seeing other patrons pouring in looking for a place to sit, Spike, Mike, and Andrei do the sensible thing and squeeze into our booth, leaving theirs available for some new arrivals.

Wow!  No sh!t!  I am now sitting next to Spike Lee, Michael Bay, and Andrei Tarkovsky!  IKR!?!  WTAF?!?!?  It's a real, live Christmas Miracle!!

And it's almost like while they have been sitting behind me, they've been rehearsing their pitch all this time, preparing for this very moment: (*)

Spike Lee: Racist MAGAs are trying to turn America's cultural clock back to a time before The Enlightenment.  Like Public Enemy says in my film Do the Right Thing: "Fight the power!!"

Michael Bay: No lie!  And thanks to advances in technology, the time is right for someone who wants to disrupt things to create a movie!  "Why isn't everything exploding?!"

Andrei Tarkovsky: "Art would be useless if the world were perfect, as man wouldn't look for harmony but would simply live in it."

Alex: But I'm over 60 years old!  How can I quickly learn about making movies?

Spike Lee: The thing a lot of people loved about the Sex Pistols is they didn't hold back.  "A lot of times we censor ourselves before the censor even gets there."  You may be older than most people, but you're motivated and have a great attitude!

Michael Bay: I like to make movies that have a lot of action.  If a movie doesn't have a lot of action, people will fall asleep.  "I make movies that audiences like, that I'd want to see."  You could start by watching some of my movies to learn what people want to see!  I suggest watching The Island, starring Ewan McGregor and Scarlett Johansson!

Andrei Tarkovsky: You should watch my film about the fifteenth century religious icon painter Andrei Rublev.  It's a movie about an artist, done by an artist.  It has lots of long takes that help you empathize with the characters and make you feel like you're actually there.  "I'd say that film is the sculpting of time."  Just keep that in mind while you hone your craft.

Me: Alex, I have a copy of Andrei Rublev on DVD, if you'd like to come over sometime and watch it.  Here, let me give you my cell number.  [Alex and I trade phone numbers.]

Spike Lee: I've seen Andrei Rublev, it's a beautiful film!  Alex, you should also watch my biography of Malcolm X.  It shows the sort of violent, racist culture these MAGA cult members are trying to bring back to America.

Michael Bay: Those movies are both over three hours long!  If you've got that kind of time, you should watch my film about Pearl Harbor.  Like Malcolm X and Andrei Rublev, it's also based on a true story.  Not only that, it's got lots of romance - with beautiful, sexy women - and of course plenty of explosions!  It also shows you what Real Patriots do in Real War Planes, as opposed to these cosplayer types who hug the flag one day then do a fake video of themself in a plane pooping on Americans the next.

Me: Right?  Sheesh, what a maroon, our pos potus is!  [All of us have a good laugh at my Bugs Bunny reference and clever acronyms, and we take a moment to sip on our drinks.]

Andrei Tarkovsky: My last film, The Sacrifice, also has planes in it; however, you never see them, you only hear them.  But they're really loud, so you can really feel the terror of what it's like to have one flying overhead - one that might well drop a nuke on you at any second.  It's intense!

Spike Lee: "I'm worried just as much about Donald Trump as that crazy guy in North Korea - and he has a nuclear code. I'm worrying about that."

Michael Bay: "A lot of directors don't want the pressure of a movie the size of Pearl Harbor. But I love it. I thrive on it."

Andrei Tarkovsky: I'm proud of you, Alex, for being willing to do something about the situation here in America in 2025.  "I am convinced that any attempt to restore harmony in the world can only rest on the renewal of personal responsibility."

Me: Alrighty then!  I think we've got Alex here off to a good start!  And OMG I can't believe I actually met three of my favorite film directors - Spike Lee, Michael Bay, and Andrei Tarkovsky - in real life!  I am definitely going to have to post this online tomorrow!  Merry Christmas everyone, indeed!!

Spike Lee: Right!  Merry Christmas everyone!

Michael Bay: This has been awesome!  Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!

Andrei Tarkovsky: I'd like to wish you all Happy Holidays, and good luck with your new career, Alex!

Having finished our kava, we all went on our separate ways, with me rushing home to write this tale and share it with my friends online.  I hope you've enjoyed it!

Merry Christmas to all, and to all a good night!!

(*) Quotes in quotes are from azquotes.com .  The rest of the dialog was totally made up by me, solely for the purpose of your entertainment.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eALKrOVaRGg
https://www.thebulwark.com/p/we-need-a-new-great-awakening

