Jan. 6th, 2026, Denver, Colorado, USA

At 71 yo, it makes me sick to think that I know people who chose to vote for the anti-American behavior of:

o Sicko republicans - CINOs, Conservatives In Name Only - who can only be happy when other suffer (djt in a nutshell)

o Very Online republicans who get off on others' pain, e.g.,via ASMR videos

o Fake friends who turn a blind eye (at best) to the blatant hatred of "The Others" - i.e. anyone who's different from them - endemic in today’s GOP

o Republicans who are so against change that they want to deny others the right to enjoy the benefits of medical advances, such as vaccines and transgender care -- all the while embracing advances like the internet, which allows them to communicate, make money by lying to each other, and plot violence against (e.g. "Hang Mike Pence!") and otherwise threaten public officials with swatting and the like

o Anyone who would vote for a presidential candidate whose idea of fun is to produce a video of himself wearing a crown and dumping shit on Americans who refuse to support him and his constant lying
  o You know what?  I'd like someone to dump real shit on his asshole supporters!  How's that for justice? (*)

o And after the insurrection after Jan 6th, 2021 even the blissfully "uninformed" ignoramuses who, at best, turn a blind eye to this sort of shit are guilty

And oh, this is just a smattering of what this POS Pedo POTUS has done!  There's more! (*)

Here's a "fun" fact: I grew up during the Vietnam War, and was 19 yo and #4 in the draft lottery when Nixon ended it in 1973.  Today, as far as I'm concerned, these republican CINOs are worse than the North Vietnamese we were being drafted to kill overseas.  If you want to know why, just keep reading. (*)

Fool me once, shame on me.  Fool me twice, go fuck yourself!

As Ken Kesey once said: "you're either on the bus or off the bus." And if you voted for that wretched lyin' POS in 2024, as far as I’m concerned, you are off the bus!

Hey, I am a very Agreeable person. If you voted for Trump in 2016 or 2020, fine! But guess what: surprise surprise surprise: I ain't no goddam pushover!!

Five years after J6 I do not see any way to forgive people who didn’t learn a lesson that day and insisted on voting for this crap in 2024.


(*) Here are some more reasons I cannot see a way to keep the fake friends who voted for the Orange God King, courtesy of JVL at The Bulwark

[T]he unavoidable reality is that over the last decade, enough Republican voters have developed a preference for authoritarianism that the party installed a strongman who:

o Attempted a coup.

o Established a kleptocracy of unprecedented scale.

o Created a masked federal secret police force.

o Uses the power of government to reward private businesses that render him tribute (and punish those that don't) and to consolidate private media companies and tech platforms under the control of his his allies.

o Does not recognize any check on executive power aside from rulings from the Supreme Court. (And even that check seems to be conditional.)

o Is in the process of purging the senior ranks of the military in order to install loyalists.

o Is attempting a takeover of the central bank.

Update: And now Mr. "I'll end the war in Ukraine on Day One", Convicted Felon Donald Trump has invaded Venezuela, and is threatening to do the same to at least half a dozen countries - including our NATO ally Greenland.

As far as I'm concerned, confirmed draft dodger Donald "Captain Bonespurs" Trump is way worse than the Viet Cong we were fighting in the 1960s and 70s, because they never did any of this shit!

HAVE YOU HAD ENOUGH YET, MAGA FUCKWADS?!?!

The bottom line is this: if you voted for Donald Trump in 2024, you knowingly voted for divisiveness.  Well guess what?  I gotcher divisiveness right here, motherfucker [flips the bird and grabs own crotch]!!

THANK YOU FOR YOUR ATTENTION TO THIS MATTER!!

