I've Been Thinking ["Dun Dun Dunnnnnn"]
---------------------------------------

January 6th, 2026, Denver, Colorado, US of A

Lately I've been thinking about:

o Psychology - specifically Openness, one of the Big 5 personality traits
o Politics - specifically the disasterous trump administration
o Religion - specifically forgiveness and the golden rule
o The Grateful Dead - specifically their time on Ken Kesey's bus

Psychology is, of course, inherent in thinking.
Because scores on the Big 5 "OCEAN" personality traits fall into a bell curve - with most people falling someplace in the middle -
Psychologists have historically regarded very high or very low scores in one of these traits as a pathology.

Being high in Openness, my thinking lately involves whether this is still true in a world where billions of people are connected by the internet.
I also score high in Conscientiousness, low in Extraversion, high in Agreeableness, and low in Neuroticism, but my Openness score is the most extreme of the 5.

Watching in amazement and disdain while someone like donald trump - who is clearly the opposite of me (1) - ascends to the highest office in America makes me wonder if whether extreme scores might indeed be more of a super-power than a pathology.
Moreover, it's clear to me that he has harnessed the power of the internet to convince tens of millions of Americans that he is a great and wonderful person and each and everyone who doesn't like him is a radical leftist.

Fwiw, I am an Independent, have never belonged to either major party, and never will, because on "both sides of the river, there is bacteria." (2)

You might want to take a minute here to let all that sink in.

If you are unfamiliar with the Big 5 "OCEAN" personality traits, you might want to take one of them.
But there's nothing tricky or fancy about the terms Openness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism.
They all mean exactly what it sounds like they mean, and that is one of the great things about these terms!

There are a bunch of these online; I recommend the site https://personalityassessor.com , because it has a very user-friendly interface.
Their 60-item quiz is a quick way to get started, but their 300-item quiz - which breaks each of the Big Five traits into six facets - is the most revealing.

If this does not sound like your cuppa-cuppa, you just might want to just stop reading now.
Indeed, if you're a Maga cult member, you should probably move on to something more comfortable, and maybe even use your trusty pointer device to block me from your own personal interwebz forever.

["Dumm dee dumm dee dumm dee dumm." - repeat as necessary, or just go away.]


(1) trump is clearly low in Openness, low in Conscientiousness, high in Extraversion, low in Agreeableness, and high in Neuroticism - as I wrote, the opposite of me.
(2) that's a wonderful metaphor I got from the song Careering by Public Image Limited.

