
Spike Lee, Michael Bay, and Andrei Tarkovsky Walk Into a Bar: A Christmas Story

On Christmas Eve, 2025, I was at a local kava bar.  It was crazy crowded with 20-somethings, but I managed to grab a table just as a group of them was leaving.
I was getting ready to open my copy of Harlan Ellison's Dangerous Visions when another older person came up and asked if they could sit with me.

We of course started chatting and, when the topic turned from music in general to punk rock specifically, my new friend Alex told me the strangest story!
They said they'd actually seen the Sex Pistols perform back in the 1970s, when they toured Britain, back when Glen Matlock was still their bass player and before Sid Vicious joined.

Like so many other people who went on to form bands back then - bands such as Joy Division, The Smiths, and X-Ray Spex - seeing this band instantly changed Alex's life.
In fact, right then and there, they had decided that they wanted to do something similarly totally original, and equally disruptive.

Like so many of the Sex Pistols' shows, chaos ensued that night and unfortunately, they were hit in the head by a flying folding chair during the show and wound up in a coma!
Crazy, huh?

When I told Alex I thought this was unbelievable, they insisted that I feel the metal plate in their head.
It felt real enough, alright, but I still couldn't resist thinking this was one tall-as-hell tale!

Continuing with their story, Alex told me about how their parents relocated to Denver, Colorado - which coincidentally is where I live - in the 1990s.
They brought their still-comatose child along with them, and eventually, in 2018, Alex woke up.

Alex's aging parents died soon after this miracle.
Although their parents were not rich, they were comfortable, and were able to leave their child with a modest inheritance.

Moreover, Alex was now a child with a teenager's brain stuck in a 65-year-old's body.  Yikes!  What to do?

After years of physical therapy, Alex made a full recovery, and began to remember their dream of following in the rebellious, influential Sex Pistols' footsteps.


quickly realizes that we now have an internet connecting everyone on the planet, and a violent mob of internet trolls has taken control of America's government and is trying to turn the clock back to a time before The Enlightenment.

Now that they're awake - this is still in my dream, btw - Alex realizes that there are so many musicians around that following in the Pistols' footsteps is just not realistic, because they'd just be drowned out by all the competition.
However, Alex can also see that, thanks to advances in technology, smart phones, youtube, and Open Source Software in particular, someone who wanted to disrupt things could use a modest amount of capital to create a movie!


