Here is how the president has approached basically all problems since retaking office last year:

    Step 1: Announce your intent to solve some longstanding problem, like America’s trade deficit,1 or Iran’s pursuit of a nuclear weapon, or the national debt, or an algae-ridden reflecting pool.

    Step 2: Ignore all logistical challenges that made the problem difficult in the first place; proclaim confidently that the only reason previous attempts to solve them failed is because your predecessors were giant idiots.

    Step 3: Try to solve the problem via the first idea you think of.

    Step 4: Fail spectacularly and immediately.

It’s amazing how many times, in just a year and a half, Trump has followed this precise script.

How to fix the American economy? Simple: Throw a million tariffs on it. “For decades, our country has been looted, pillaged, raped, and plundered by nations near and far, both friend and foe alike,” Trump thundered on “Liberation Day” in April 2025. “I don’t blame these other countries at all for this calamity. I blame former presidents and past leaders who weren’t doing their job.” He then spent months in a fever dream of tariff negotiations and renegotiations, setting and resetting rates with mad abandon and whipping the economy around like a rag doll, until the Supreme Court declared the whole mess unconstitutional earlier this year.

How to tackle the national debt? Simple: Just throw open the government books to some smart tech guys and let them figure out what to cut. Trump and Elon Musk, Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said last February, were doing “the exact same things that Democrat politicians promised the American people they would do for decades. President Trump is just the first president in our lifetimes to actually do it.” Musk then spent a few months rampaging through the government tearing the wiring out of the walls; a project that did major damage to vulnerable populations around the world and U.S. science research but made no appreciable dent in federal spending.

How to bring Iran’s mullahs to heel? Simple: Bomb the hell out of the country until they give you everything you want. “For 47 years, no president was willing to do what I’m doing, and they should have done it a long time ago,” Trump said of his war on Iran back in March. He then spent months watching economic pain pile up in America and waiting in vain for the Iranian capitulation to come, before finally getting sick of the thing and throwing in the towel this week.

It’s happened over and over again. And yet there’s a special pathos to seeing the same pattern play out in the reflecting pool specifically. Maybe it’s just the striking visual—it’s such a beautiful green! Or maybe it’s just the fact that, in this case, the fight Trump is losing happens to be one against a single-celled organism.

https://www.thebulwark.com/p/make-america-green-algae-ish-trump-reflecting-pool-tariffs-trade-deficit-iran-war
