
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eALKrOVaRGg
https://www.thebulwark.com/p/we-need-a-new-great-awakening

Spike Lee, Michael Bay, and Andrei Tarkovsky Walk Into a Bar: A Christmas Story

It's Christmas Eve, 2025, I am at a local kava bar.  It is crazy crowded, but I manage to grab a booth just as a group of people are leaving.

I was getting ready to open my copy of Harlan Ellison's Dangerous Visions when someone comes up and asks if they could sit with me.
"Sure", I say.  I mean, it's super crowded, so, duh!

We started chatting and, when the topic turned from music in general to punk rock specifically, my new friend Alex told me the strangest story.
They said they had seen the Sex Pistols perform when they toured Britain in 1976!

Like so many other people who went on to form bands back then - bands such as Siouxsie and the Banshees, Joy Division, The Smiths, and X-Ray Spex - seeing this band instantly changed Alex's life.
In fact, right then and there, they had decided that they wanted to do something similarly totally original, and equally disruptive.

Like so many of the Sex Pistols' shows, chaos ensued that night and, unfortunately, Alex was hit in the head by a flying folding chair during the show and wound up in a coma!
Crazy, huh?

When I told Alex I thought this was unbelievable, they insisted that I feel the metal plate in their head.
It felt real enough, alright, but I still couldn't resist thinking this was one tall-as-hell tale!

Alex proceeded to tell me about how their parents relocated to Denver, Colorado in the 1990s and brought their still-comatose child along with them.
In 2018, Alex woke up and their aging parents died a few years later, but were able to leave their child with a modest inheritance.

After a bit of physical therapy, Alex made a full recovery, and of course remembered their dream of following in the rebellious, influential Sex Pistols' footsteps.
Moreover, Alex was in effect now a child with a teenager's brain stuck in a 65-year-old's body.

The still-rebellious Alex could see that we now have an internet connecting everyone on the planet, and a violent mob of internet trolls has taken control of America's government.
But they also realize that there are so many musicians around that have already followed, to varying degrees, in the Pistols' footsteps.
So at this time, their original goal is just not realistic, because they'd just be drowned out by all the competition.

At this point, the famous movie directors Spike Lee, Michael Bay, and Andrei Tarkovsky - who have been sitting at the booth behind me all this time - interrupt us to say Alex should make movies!
Of course I am all like, "Whaaaaaa???"

Seeing other patrons looking for a place to sit, they Do the Right Thing and squish into our booth.  No shit!  
I am now sitting next to Spike Lee, Michael Bay, and Andrei Tarkovsky!  IKR!?!  WTAF?!?!?

And it's almost like they have been sitting behind me, rehearsing all this time for this very moment:

Spike Lee: Racist MAGAs are trying to turn America's cultural clock back to a time before The Enlightenment.  "Do the Right Thing!"  "Fight the power!!"
Michael Bay: No lie!  And thanks to advances in technology, the time is right for someone who wanted to disrupt things to create a movie!  "Why isn't everything exploding?!"
Andrei Tarkovsky: "Art would be useless if the world were perfect, as man wouldn't look for harmony but would simply live in it."
Spike Lee: The thing everyone loved about the Sex Pistols is they didn't hold back.  "A lot of times we censor ourselves before the censor even gets there."
Alex: But how can I quickly learn about making movies?
Michael Bay: I like to make movies that have a lot of action.  If a movie doesn't have a lot of action, people will fall asleep.  "I make movies that audiences like, that I'd want to see."
Andrei Tarkovsky: 
Spike Lee: 
Michael Bay: 
Andrei Tarkovsky: 
Spike Lee: 
Michael Bay: 
Andrei Tarkovsky: 
Spike Lee: 
Michael Bay: 
Andrei Tarkovsky: 


