
Donald Trump has purged the military’s senior leadership and replaced them with people who one retired colonel told The New York Times makes it seem like “they’re political appointees selected on the basis of their personal loyalty and partisan alignment.”

He summoned hundreds of top generals to Quantico, VA and made them sit through a lecture about grooming from a secretary of defense who likes to do push ups on the internet while sharing secret war plans with journalists.

He is banning transgender people from serving in the military, leaving service members feeling “betrayed and devastated.” He’s repeatedly used our armed forces as stage props and human propaganda at his rallies, dangerously politicizing America’s soldiers, sailors, and airmen.

THIS IS IN KEEPING WITH TRUMP'S LIFELONG PATTERN OF DISRESPECT AND CONTEMPT FOR MILITARY SERVICE AND THOSE WHO SERVE.

After repeatedly dodging the draft during the Vietnam War, he called his struggle to avoid getting STDs his “personal Vietnam.” He has called fallen soldiers “suckers” and “losers” and refused to appear at memorials for those killed in action.

He has had wounded warriors shielded from view at his public appearances—saying, “no one wants to see that”—and demeaned the service of Sen. John McCain, who spent more than five years in a prisoner of war camp.

When reviewing the dead at Arlington, Trump asked his own chief of staff, Marine Gen. John Kelly—whose son died in combat—“I don’t get it. What was in it for them?”

Help us call out Trump’s lies. Subscribe to Home of the Brave.

TRUMP’S DISRESPECT FOR THE MILITARY IS BOUNDLESS. AND IT HASN’T ESCAPED THE NOTICE OF aMERICA’S SERVICE MEMBERS.

Here are just some of the veterans—real people who put on our country’s uniform and volunteered to put their lives on the line—speaking out about how Trump’s disastrous policies have affected them, and about all the ways his cruelty and disrespect undermine America’s military preparedness:

[For the real-life stories, in both video and text, click this link:]

https://newsletter.ofthebrave.org/p/meet-the-veterans-who-trump-is-screwing

