Tuesday January 6th, 2026, Denver, Colorado, The UNITED States of America

Ahem. Thank you for coming.  Let’s get right to the point:
----------------------------------------------------------

At 71 yo, in my limited time here on the earth, do I want to associate with - and thereby implicitly condone - the perverse, anti-American behavior of:

o sicko republicans (CINOs) who can only be happy when other suffer (djt in a nutshell)?
  o CINOs: Conservative In Name Only

o asshole Very Online republicans who get off on others' pain, e.g.,via ASMR videos?
  o https://www.cnbc.com/2025/02/18/white-house-x-immigrants-deportation-shackles-asmr-video.html

o fake friends who turn a blind eye (at best) to the blatant hatred of “the other” endemic in today’s GOP?

o republicans who are so against change that they want to deny others the right to enjoy the benefits of medical advances, such as vaccines and transgender care -- all the while embracing advances like the internet, which allows them to communicate, make money by lying to each other, and plot violence against (e.g. “Hang Mike Pence!”) and otherwise threaten public officials with swatting and the like?

o anyone who would vote for a presidential candidate whose idea of a good time is to produce a video of himself wearing a crown and dumping shit on Americans who don’t support him and his constant lying?
  o you know what?  I'd like someone to dump real shit on his asshole supporters!  How's that for justice? (*)

o or even blissfully “uninformed” ignoramuses who, at best, turn a blind eye to this sort of shit?

Answer: FUCK NO! Hey, I am a very Agreeable person, but surprise surprise surprise: I ain’t no goddam masochist!!

As Ken Kesey once said: “you're either on the bus or off the bus”.  If you voted for Trump in 2016 or 2020, fine. However, if you voted for that wretched lyin’ POS in 2024, as far as I’m concerned, you are off the bus!

In other words, FUCK FORGIVENESS!  Five years after J6 I feel 100% justified in shutting people who didn’t learn a lesson that day out of my life forever!  Fool me once, shame on me.  Fool me twice, go fuck yourself!!  If you don't like it, TOUGH SHIT, ASSHOLE!!!	


(*) In fact, ya know what?  If you voted for Donald Trump in 2024, you knowingly voted for divisiveness.  Well guess what?  I gotcher divisiveness right here, motherfucker [flips the bird with one hand and grabs own crotch with the other]!!

Link to J6 video that Morgan Freeman likes to share: https://x.com/i/status/2004170346191376883

At first I was thinking of doing a calm, cool, logical (“Lukium-esque”) thing.

Now I am thinking of doing more of an honest, profane, emotional (“Teidrich-esque”) thing.

My original thinking about this follows.  Liking the above take a lot the hell better.

I've Been Thinking ["Dun Dun Dunnnnnn"]
---------------------------------------

Lately I've been thinking about:

o Psychology - specifically Openness, one of the Big 5 personality traits
o Politics - specifically the disasterous trump administration
o Religion - specifically forgiveness and the golden rule
o The Grateful Dead - specifically their time on Ken Kesey's bus

Psychology is, of course, inherent in thinking.
Because scores on the Big 5 "OCEAN" personality traits fall into a bell curve - with most people falling someplace in the middle -
Psychologists have historically regarded very high or very low scores in one of these traits as a pathology.

Being high in Openness, my thinking lately involves whether this is still true in a world where billions of people are connected by the internet.
I also score high in Conscientiousness, low in Extraversion, high in Agreeableness, and low in Neuroticism, but my Openness score is the most extreme of the 5.

Watching in amazement and disdain while someone like donald trump - who is clearly the opposite of me (1) - ascends to the highest office in America makes me wonder if whether extreme scores might indeed be more of a super-power than a pathology.
Moreover, it's clear to me that he has harnessed the power of the internet to convince tens of millions of Americans that he is a great and wonderful person and each and everyone who doesn't like him is a radical leftist.

Fwiw, I am an Independent, have never belonged to either major party, and never will, because on "both sides of the river, there is bacteria." (2)

You might want to take a minute here to let all that sink in.

If you are unfamiliar with the Big 5 "OCEAN" personality traits, you might want to take one of them.
But there's nothing tricky or fancy about the terms Openness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism.
They all mean exactly what it sounds like they mean, and that is one of the great things about these terms!

There are a bunch of these online; I recommend the site https://personalityassessor.com , because it has a very user-friendly interface.
Their 60-item quiz is a quick way to get started, but their 300-item quiz - which breaks each of the Big Five traits into six facets - is the most revealing.

If this does not sound like your cuppa-cuppa, you just might want to just stop reading now.
Indeed, if you're a Maga cult member, you should probably move on to something more comfortable, and maybe even use your trusty pointer device to block me from your own personal interwebz forever.

["Dumm dee dumm dee dumm dee dumm." - repeat as necessary, or just go away.]


(1) trump is clearly low in Openness, low in Conscientiousness, high in Extraversion, low in Agreeableness, and high in Neuroticism - as I wrote, the opposite of me.
(2) that's a wonderful metaphor I got from the song Careering by Public Image Limited.

