
LinkedIn:
---------
Team Building
- well-rounded teams
- need to cover all four functions to some extent
- evidence: my site (not very pragmatic)
- would like to test this idea for a few small teams (for a very low price, perhaps even for free)

Medium
------
Feel like I should address possible nay-sayers up front from the start.
If someone posts a hostile comment, just post url to this article (try to minimize the time spent worrying about it).

Idea: Series of three *short* articles
Format:
1. I have done this __________
2. The Good/Bad/Ugly thing is ____________
3. Result: I will be keeping on keeping on.

The Good:
I want to help people see past the surface.
I love to draw personalities, and have written a program to help me do this.
I love to learn and in addition to learning numerous computer languages I have studied music, drawing,
painting, photography, film, and dance.  I took my first ballet class when I was in my 40s.
[Mention of Kandinsky's triangle here.  I am thinking that should be a whole separate article....]
If anyone is qualified to say what art is and is not, it is me.
And I call this "Art."  It expresses how I look at people; it's an expression of how I view our world.
In this respect, I feel it's similar to what modern painters such as Picasso have done.
Down-to-earth, pragmatic, closed-minded people may find this arrogant.
Down-to-earth, pragmatic, closed-minded people thought the Beatles were arrogant, and burned their albums in the mid-1960s.
And who got the last laugh there (hahaha-hehehe-hohoho [link to I Am the Walrus])?
It's rather like a language I have created that communicates a lot about an individual in a single glance.
Some will pick up on the patterns more quickly than others.  Some will close themselves off to it completely right from the start.
Such is the movement of The Triangle.
Publishing more examples will help more people get it, but that takes time, a lot of time.
I believe having enough examples will enable Artificially Intelligent programs to get it.
If you want to stay ahead of the machines, I recommend you invest some time understanding the idea behind these images.
It has taken me decades to create this site.
If you don't appreciate this, please continue on to Part 2: The Bad.

The Bad:
I want to help people see past the surface.
Not everyone gets this.
If you get it, great, but if you don't, I don't really care.
To understand it requires a little bit of "work."
The personality assessment used does not cover everything.
Morality, intelligence, artistic, acrobatic, and athletic ability, none of these will show up in these Spiritual Portraits.
People expecting to see these qualities represented in the images will be disappointed.
It takes a long time to create these images.  I spent much of a three-day just on Charles Foster Kane.
Watching and drawing a few portraits from a single season of Game of Thrones takes about a week.
(If you skip the commentaries and watch each episode only once or twice, you are missing out.)
Fortunately, a lot of this time is spent on research, all of which for me is entertaining, to say the least.
I run this site out of my home, and so clearly have marketable skills, but so far I have made zero money from this passion project.
People expecting to see all of the latest fictional personalities here will be disappointed.
This does not count the years I have spent writing multiple versions of the program, and the years spent
going to a shit ton of meetups trying to figure out the best way to present and hopefully ultimately monetize this idea.
This goal is far from complete, but I feel I'm on the right track, and far more importantly, know where I can get help.
If you'd like to help me keep the site up to date by contributing to my efforts, <a ...>Contact Me!</a>
It has taken me decades to create this site.
If there's something you don't like about it, please continue on to Part 3: The Ugly.

The Ugly:
I want to help people see past the surface.
Many people like to see only the surface, not past it, and some will undoubtedly feel offended by my desire to see past it.
Moreover, I believe that some people feel the need to insult others and their work to
subconsciously compensate for some perceived lack in themself, e.g., their inability to see past the surface, and
perhaps even their failure to think about seeing past it before finding one of my spiritual portraits online.

Ultimately, one way or the other, it's a new spin on an age-old trope: one perceived insult leads to a counter attack,
soon both parties spiral into a bottomless pit of complete negativity.
As an idealist, I try my best to refrain from that sort of senseless behavior, and
 it's a complete waste of my time to try to educate a complete stranger who has no desire to learn.
In other words, some people have no desire to acknowledge the existence of Kandinsky's triangle,
 much less participate in the movement of it toward it's ultimate destination.
Yes people like this do exist.  They have smart phones but no interest in being smart, being only interested in putting themselves above others in any way they can.

Only addressing this negativity and hostility once.  Not wasting time on closed-minded dumbasses.

And here is my response: [link to video of Straight to Hell by The Clash, e.g., https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sX71qQ8EOmc ]

