Donald Trump had another mystery visit to a doctor’s office this week.

Three years ago, only 28% of Americans surveyed by a Washington Post-ABC News-Ipsos poll said Trump was NOT healthy enough to serve as president. Today, that same poll found that 55% of Americans don't believe Donald Trump is healthy enough to serve as president. There needs to be a poll asking if he's mentally healthy enough to be president.

Trump has always rambled incoherently, but it seems to be distressing people more now in combination with his cankles, hand bruises, swollen eyes, and excessive blinking. Shhhh…he’s sleepy.

Trump had a physical in April of last year, and then he had a semi-annual physical in October, and now he has gone back for his third physical in 13 months. Additionally, he's been to a Dentist twice over the past five months, which surprises everyone. He still has his teeth?

The White House is very secretive about these visits and in denial that maybe the oldest president ever elected/appointed/installed could be feeling his age, which will be 80 in two weeks. MAGAts need to come to terms with the fact that Donald Trump is a geezer.

On top of all of that, Donald Trump does not look good. He looks tired, like he would lose a beauty contest to a week-old corpse. There's not enough makeup in MAGAland to hide the skin sagging on his face. Now, when Donald Trump falls asleep at one of his cabinet meetings, staffers feel the impulse to check on him to make sure he didn't pass away. At the next cabinet meeting, everyone should turn the light off and tiptoe out of the room.

By the way, The New York Times reviewed over a dozen hours of cabinet meeting footage to analyze how cabinet members spoke to Trump. On average, at least one of every six sentences either flattered Trump, gave him credit, or criticized his political opponents.

When questioned about Trump's naps in meetings, the White House’s X account spent much of the day attacking CNN with photos and short videos of the network’s hosts blinking or looking down, facetiously claiming that they were sleeping or showing signs of decline. Me thinks they doth protest too much. As if Donald Trump looks more spry than Anderson Cooper.

And of course, the White House can't be honest about anything and gives us lies that are so ridiculous that only the most cultist of MAGAts can believe, like the claim that Donald Trump only weighs 224 pounds. At least they updated the lie from 215 pounds from about two years ago. The alcoholic White House physician who told Trump that he could live to be 200 years old if he stopped eating at McDonald's, Ronnie Jackson, doesn't lie for him anymore in the White House, but now lies for him in Congress. You'd better make that Kool-Aid a double.

Last fall, Trump and the White House said he received an MRI, then they refused to say why or what part of his body was scanned. In January, Trump changed his story and said it was a CT scan. Nobody has a CT scan or an MRI for shits and giggles. After going through three MRIs after my stroke, I can assure you of that. We still don't know why Trump received this procedure.

Donald Trump will soon be the oldest president in our nation’s history. He's already the least competent, the dumbest, the least qualified, the worst, the most corrupt, and the most racist, which can all be added to him being the unhealthiest president in American history.

By the way, speaking of health stuff and scans: I have an appointment to see a neurologist in August. We'll see if they can find my brain.

Support your local cartoonist: If you want to support the cartoonist, please donate through PayPal to clayjonz@gmail.com, Venmo to clay-jones-87, or snail mail it to Clay Jones, P.O. Box 3721, Fredericksburg, VA 22402.
I also take Zelle.
All support is appreciated.

Signed prints and books: I cannot take orders for signed prints or for my books at this time. So please do not send me money or place orders for them until further notice. Because of the stroke, it is an ordeal for me to get to the post office, so we’re gonna hold up until I’m fully capable of doing so. Thank you for your understanding.

Merch: Did you know there’s a Claytoonz store? My cartoons are printed on mugs, clothing, caps, and even a Peezy T-shirt. If you ever want a specific cartoon on some merch, let me know, and I’ll add it.

