The Trump voter scoffed: “They’re not going after people like him. They’re only going after the criminals.”  Eleven months later, that naïve faith has been smashed....
Nezer described pregnant women being forced into overcrowded detention facilities with inadequate sanitary facilities, only frozen burritos or potato chips to eat, lack of clean drinking water (except by purchase), and no medical care or medicines. Some pregnant women were sleeping on concrete floors. The WRC spoke to mothers who had been deported to Honduras. Several nursing mothers had seen their milk dry up due to poor nutrition while they were held in detention in the United States. A woman who was four months pregnant was denied medication for gestational diabetes.
Among these dangerous criminals that the Trump administration is devoting huge resources to detaining and deporting were a mother arrested as she was on her way to pick up her special-needs child from school, a mother separated from her two-month-old baby, the mother of a 5-year-old whose husband is a U.S. citizen, and hundreds of others (though exact numbers are impossible to obtain due to government non-cooperation). Among those Nezer interviewed in Honduras were housecleaners, restaurant workers, and stay-at-home moms. All of them were working, and quite a few had open asylum cases pending. Many were frantic about the children they’d been forced to leave behind in the United States. While they had phones with them, many did not have chargers and had no way of contacting their families, far less lawyers. As Nezer told me:
"Before this year, detaining pregnant women was the rare exception, and there were safeguards. Now it happens all the time and conditions are beyond inhumane. Everyone knows how important medical care and nutrition are to healthy pregnancies, not to mention avoiding stress. The fact that in our country today so many women are denied these most basic rights, for no good reason, is something we can’t look away from."
In the first Trump administration, the family separation policy became a scandal. Now, ICE and border patrol agents are routinely separating parents from children, even to the point of ripping nursing infants from their mothers.
Do you feel safer now? I feel deeply ashamed.

https://www.thebulwark.com/p/trumps-deportations-are-ripping-mothers-babies-venezuela-el-salvador-cecot-immigration

P.S. For an extra fun good time, read the article linked to above while listening to the song Bodies by The Sex Pistols.

Bonus comment added:
--------------------
While you've got Never Mind the Bollocks going on your youtube or turntable or whatever the eff ya got there for doing yer musics: put Anarchy in the UK on and read this peek into these ICE agents' futures.  "No future" might indeed be better than what many of them face in the coming years:
https://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/how_todays_righteous_violence_turns_into_tomorrows_psychological_suffering
