
[Writer, Tony Kushner, I believe:] Swiss Cheese has been entrusted with this cash box.
He's going to see that the opposing army doesn't get it....
If they find him with the cash box, then he's a member of the opposing army, and the entire family would be killed....
Mother Courage: They're not wolves, they're just men, after money.  Yeah.  Corruption is the human equivalent of God's mercy!
As long as somebody's on the take, [laughs sarcastically] you can buy a lighter sentence and even the innocent have a shot at justice!
[Oskar Eustis, Artistic Director of the Public Theater: She tries to bargain them down ...
 and bargains too long, and Swiss Cheese ends up being killed.]
Mother Courage: It seems to me I haggled too long up.
[Oskar Eustis: And then she has to pretend that she doesn't recognize his body.]
-- Theatre of War, 2008 (51:20)

Translation from the 1961 movie of the dialog from this scene:
Mother Courage: I think they'll hand him (Swiss Cheese) over (to the Swiss or Swedish authorities?).
After all, they're not wolves, but people, and after money.  Thank God, they're corrupt.
Corruption is the only hope, for an innocent man to be acquitted in court.
-- Mother Courage and ihre Kindred, 1961 (1:01:57)

Oskar Eustis: Brecht has this idea, I call it the fatal virtue.  Tragic characters are supposed to have a
fatal flaw that kills them, and in Brecht it's always these characters are killed by their virtues.
And whether it's Swiss Cheese's honesty, or Eilif's bravery, or Kattrin's compassion, that's what
ultimately destroys them.  And with "Courage" it's exactly the same: it's her incredible force of will,
her absolute refusal to be defeated, which is absolutely admirable on the one hand, but I think in
watching the play you completely see it's what kills her children.  The reason that he has that fatal
virtue, is that he doesn't blame the characters.  It's not Courage's fault.  His suggestion is that it's
not the characters that have to change, it's the society they're in.  That *that's* the thing we have to
look at to change.  We have to change the context in which these people make their decisions.
-- Theatre of War, 2008 (1:28:10)

