
 Commercial Security Cameras
-----------------------------

Introduction
The cost of Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) security cameras continues to decline, making them easy to afford.
Developments in technology enable businesses to combine cameras with other security products to design and build a security system perfectly suited to the business' needs and budget.

You can rely on the 2D Electronics Design and Consulting Services Division to design and install a security system that fits both your needs and your budget.

Commercial Security
Business owners can implement measures such as the following to increase the security of their business:

- Video Monitoring: surveillance cameras
- Access Control: keyed and electronic locks
- Alarms: door and window alarms, and motion detectors

This article focuses on CCTV security cameras.

Security Camera Options
The wide variety of cameras available today gives business owners many options.

- Systems may be wired or wireless
- Cameras may be fixed or mobile, allowing an operator to tilt, pan, or zoom in
- High resolution streams offer more detail but require more storage space
- Low resolution streams offer less detail but also require less storage space
- Systems can be designed to work at night or in other conditions where the lighting is low
- Some applications may require systems to be covert or vandal resistant, or both
- Some options support the ability to supplement the feed with high-resolution photographs
- These high-resolution systems are capable of helping to identify culprits and can even read license plates
- Modern options allow business owners to view one or more feeds live on phone

Along with the cost associated with each of these options, each has its own set of advantages and disadvantages.

The experts at 2D Electronics can help you design a system customized to your specific needs and budget.

Modern CCTV Systems
As technological developments continue to be made in the industry, new features continue to appear in these camera systems.

Recording
Modern digital surveillance systems can "multiplex" the images from more than one source onto a single storage device.  This allows:

- Storing more visual streams on less disk space
- Accessing these streams simultaneously

Motion-activated cameras are also available, allowing for the storage of more streams in less space.
These cameras can be set up to record at higher resolutions when monitoring movement.

These cameras can also be set up to trigger alarms so that security personnel and business owners can see what is going on in real time.

Monitoring
All video cameras allow monitoring while recording.

Business owners typically want to monitor all entrances to the building, and entrances to inner rooms where additional security is warranted.
These systems should be set up to monitor both door and window access.

In addition to monitoring access, 2d Electronics can design and install security systems to handle other applications.

- Retail businesses typically want to monitor transactions
- Businesses may want to make a panic button available for people such as cashiers who handle money
- Some businesses may want to monitor the building's environment (e.g., temperature, humidity)
- Systems are also available to detect flooding

Having video monitoring in addition to any of these types of more specialized monitoring equiment gives the business owner a more complete sense of what is going on and when.

Communications
If your place of business stands unoccupied at any time, then you will want to be notified immediately when something is wrong.

This communication can take place using any of the following technoligies:

- A smart phone application
- Text (SMS) mesage
- Email
- Phone call from an authorized security person
- Any combination of these

The Latest Technology
Leading-edge technology supports facial recognition and can even track movement with multiple cameras through Video Content Analysis (VCA).
This equipment can be set up to work with motion detectors so the cameras are unobtrusive and "come alive" only when an intruder is present.

The 2d Electronics Guarantee
Each business has different security needs.
Whether you need a few cameras or hundreds of them, the Computer Aided Design (CAD) experts at 2d Electronics can design a security camera system that's the right size for your specific situation.

2d Electronics guarantees the system we design and install will satisfy your security needs.
We are committed to not just meeting these needs, but to providing a service that exceeds all of your expectations.

-----------------------

Integrated Systems
A new security camera system will work best as part of a business-wide security solution that includes:

- Access control
- Burglary alarms
- Fire alarms


Whether you need 4 or 54 cameras, 2d electrincis has the experience and the service to create security and alarms systems customized for your unique applications. We garuntee that by choosing 2d electronics your security and alarm system will not only meet your security needs but exceed your expectations.

These are some currently-available commercial security systems
2.1 Access control
2.1.1 Keyed Locks: Doors and Windows
2.1.2 Electronic Locks: Doors
2.1.2.1 Card reader (swipe or proximity)
2.1.2.2 Biometric (e.g., fingerprint) reader
2.1.2.3 Programmable
2.1.2.4 Access schedule control
2.1.2.5 Access reports

2.2 Alarms
2.2.1 Door and window sensors
2.2.2 Motion detectors: interior and exterior
2.2.3 Local alarms (DIY): high-decibel, homeowner must call police
2.2.4 Remote alarms: attempt to reach homeowner, call police if necessary
2.2.4.1 Use phone lines, wireless
2.2.4.2 VoIP or internet: may not work in a power outage
2.2.5 Control panel
2.2.5.1 Control and allow resetting of all sensors and detectors
2.2.5.2 Communicate with remote office
2.2.6 Glass break detector
2.2.7 Photo electric beams
2.2.8 Hold-up panic switch

3. Fire Alarm Systems
3.1 Alarms
3.1.1 Smoke detectors
3.1.2 Heat detectors
3.1.3 Local alarms
3.1.4 Remote alarms
3.1.4.1 Wired
3.1.4.2 Wireless
3.2 Sprinklers

4. Other Systems, etc.
4.1 Home automation: lights, HVAC, locks, cameras, appliances, etc.
4.2 Medical Alarms
4.3 Carbon monoxide detection
4.4 Signs for yard and windows

5. Conclusion

