US law states that no living president can appear on currency. Yet, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent is preparing for Congress to change that and is plowing ahead with plans to create a $250 bill featuring Donald Trump's face for the 250th anniversary of the country.

Bessent said, "It's all in the hands of… Capitol Hill. We prepared things in advance… but we will stick to the law."

For the sycophants that make up the Trump regime, everything is always Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump. They gotta put his name on this, put his face on that, repeat, rinse, and repeat. It is starting to get weird. Soon, all US currency will feature Donald Trump's signature.

Bessent added that he didn't think there was anything "untoward" about having the president who was in office during the country's 250th anniversary appear on the bill. In this case, “untoward” means creepy.

Last year, Republican Rep. Joe Wilson of South Carolina proposed a bill that would require the Treasury to print $250 notes with Trump’s face, but the legislation hasn’t been taken up yet.

Yesterday, someone commented on one of my cartoons and questioned whether renaming stuff after Trump was his idea or that of his staffers. It's obvious that it comes from Trump after the tirade he posted this weekend, after a judge ruled that adding his name to the Kennedy Center was illegal. Trump didn't just attack the judge, but also attacked his wife.

Trump came off extremely angry in his multiple and lengthy posts, as though no ketchup bottle in the capital was safe.

Since it takes an act of Congress for Trump's face to appear on US currency, I don't expect it to happen because I don't believe the votes are there. And isn't there a lot more important stuff for this nation to deal with to waste his time putting Trump's name and face on things?

Support your local cartoonist: If you want to support the cartoonist, please donate through PayPal to clayjonz@gmail.com, Venmo to clay-jones-87, or snail mail it to Clay Jones, P.O. Box 3721, Fredericksburg, VA 22402.
I also take Zelle.
All support is appreciated.

Signed prints and books: I cannot take orders for signed prints or for my books at this time. So please do not send me money or place orders for them until further notice. Because of the stroke, it is an ordeal for me to get to the post office, so we’re gonna hold up until I’m fully capable of doing so. Thank you for your understanding.

Merch: Did you know there’s a Claytoonz store? My cartoons are printed on mugs, clothing, caps, and even a Peezy T-shirt. If you ever want a specific cartoon on some merch, let me know, and I’ll add it.

